Vulnerability Description


Reentrancy
This is a vulnerability well known for its impact. The programmer may think that a non-recursive function cannot be
re-called while it is running, but this is not always the case, as it could be the case that within the function an empty
malicious contract is called that only contains a function of fallback that calls back the function it comes from.

Exception disorder
The treatment of exceptions in Solidity has particularities depending on whether the exception occurred in a call to a
method directly or using the CALL primitive, which can cause vulnerabilities if a malicious user causes exceptions to
alter the execution flow.

Calls to the unknown
Some methods of Solidity when invoked can call other methods of contracts that in principle are unknown and with
potentially dangerous side effects.

Type conversion
Although the Solidity compiler can detect errors with types, for example if a function waits for an integer and is called
by passing it a string, in the case of contract definitions or functions with a certain structure, in the case of calling a
function in a contract, if the programmer makes a mistake and calls by mistake another contract but it contains a
function with the same structure expected by the compiler, the function will be executed and if the function does not
exist, the function of fallback will be called. In any case, no exception will be launched.
Secrets Solidity allows you to define the visibility of fields in contracts as public or private. This can be useful if you need to
hide certain information between contract calls. Unfortunately this system is not effective as changes in private fields
have to be sent to mining nodes to be put into blockchain, which is public.

Unpredictable state
All smart contracts contain a status based on the values of their fields and their balance sheet. However, there is no
guaranteed that the state of a contract when we performed a transaction is the identical to the state when that
transaction is pulled out and placed in the blockchain. In other words, it could happen that previous to processing our
transaction, other transactions have already changed the state of the target contract and in addition to being fast, it
does not guarantee us anything since the miners can mine the transactions in the order they wish. There is a further
problem caused by the nature of blockchain, which is that a chain fork could occur if two miners continue to mine a
valid block at the same time. This would make some miners try to put their block on one of the two chains and the
others on the other. At any moment the shorter chain would be dismissed, losing the transactions contained in it and
changing the state of the contracts to an indeterminate state.

Random numbers
The execution of the Ethereum virtual machine code is deterministic. This means that the code executed with the same
inputs must produce the same output in all the nodes that execute it. This presents a problem when generating
random numbers. To simulate randomness, many contracts use a random number generator initialized with the same
seed for all miners.

Time restrictions
Many applications have time restrictions to operate. Usually these restrictions use texttimestamps. In the case of smart
contracts, the programmer can get the timestamp of when the block was mined, which is shared by all transactions in
the block. The trouble is that miners in the early versions of the protocol could choose the timestamp of the block they
were going to arbitrarily mine, which could be used to carry out attacks.

Immutable bugs
This is not a vulnerability in itself, but the consequence of a blockchain property. All the source code of smart
contracts, including those containing bugs are immutable once they are mined and added to the blockchain, although
they can be blocked by calling a destructor function.

Loss of Ether
If the developer is wrong to enter the address to send ether and that address exists but it is an orphan address that
belongs to no one that ether will be lost forever.

Stack size 
Each time one contract calls another contract the associated call stack increases by one. The stack limit is 1024 and
when the limit is reached an exception is launched. Until October 18, 2016 it was possible to take advantage of this
to launch an attack where a malicious user increased the battery counter until almost exhausted and then called the
victim’s function which launched an exception when the battery limit was exhausted. If the victim did not take this
into account and does not handle the exception correctly, the attack could be successful. The impact of this
vulnerability caused Ethereum to be redesigned.

